at one of the much better schools I
worked at better by the measure the
teachers were very caring and by the
measure the students rather enjoyed
their days as much as possible within a
coercive system as much as they could
anyway a well-intentioned service
reliably crushed the dreams of large
numbers of teenagers on a particular
single day each year it was not the
regular set of tests or assessments
indeed the teachers had nothing whatever
to do with this particular event in fact
it worked in opposition to those
teachers best efforts at instilling in
students confidence Joy of learning and
a sense of accomplishment and pride in
themselves each year the school
administrators because presumably of
Parental demand and pressure would go
through one cruel ritual that undid for
an entire cohort what was I thought
otherwise less damaging work done over
the previous four years of their school
less damaging I say as compared to
almost all other schools that I'm aware
of schooling is compulsory in Australia
so it's important to choose a good one
but this is a tale of how even the best
can utterly ruin what good work or as I
say less damaging work was accomplished
by so-called year 10 of high school this
particular school that I worked at had
well qualified kind and knowledgeable
teachers helping the students learn and
making it as fun as possible and of
course reliably failing but they did try
and helping ensure the mental health
psychological well-being of the students
was as far as possible within that
coercive system preserved or even
improved at times teachers would do
things like Mark and remark and remark
again assessments and essays and exams
to maximize the performance of students
ensure the teachers were broadly
speaking on the side of the students
but the administration did one
remarkable thing each year two students
in their fourth year of high school what
we call year 10. this is 15 and 16 year
olds and what was this thing that they
did well they contracted an outside
company of psychologists in the main to
come in and administer a battery of
intellectual IQ type tests on these
students in addition to all their other
assessments and exams that they did do
throughout the course of the year the
students would undergo a number of tests
on numeracy more advanced mathematics
so-called mechanical reasoning physics
type questions other kinds of science
questions grammar and vocabulary
questions and the solving of puzzles and
more besides what United all these
questions and tests were that they were
on content you could not study for you
couldn't prepare for this particular
test the questions were utterly unknown
the claim was they were testing inherent
mental skills when I worked there as a
teacher I had the philosophy of mine
then as I do now
as often as I could I reminded my own
students you can do whatever you like
and learn whatever you like the only
difference is your interest if somehow
you can find it interesting you will
want to go home and just consume it and
become a little obsessed with it and it
will not be difficult it'll be fun
because you will find it interesting the
trick is to somehow find it interesting
to become curious about it I don't know
what the trick is beyond just trying for
a while or finding a teacher who can
make it interesting or perhaps a book or
a YouTube video or something these days
there's all sorts of stuff on the
internet about whatever you want to
improve in especially on YouTube and
videos if you really want to improve
then you can find a source that makes it
fun so this is what happened each year
confident joyful bright students who I'd
taught this particular lesson to about
so-called intelligence and interest each
year I would teach them this kind of
thing and each year those confident
joyful bright students that I had taught
for many years and perhaps soon other
teachers that also likewise helped
Foster a sense of confidence in and you
can do whatever you want kind of
attitude were taken into the grand
examination Hall to undergo this battery
of tests administered by trained
educational psychologists was all very
official and a little intimidating as
many exams are it was of course
explained to all the students that the
results of these tests have no bearing
on your final marks relief a little bit
of fun indeed compared to those tests
which did have some bearing on the
students final grades in their report it
was said these tests were all like a
test of your personality and might help
with career choices later on
or fun just personality quizzes and at
that age teenagers are passionately
curious about things like their own
personality and the possibility of
careers are a major part of their dreams
and goals this would be fun doing this
test so they would sit the test and come
out of it every single year as they did
any other test so perhaps a little more
dismissive of this particular test more
Smiles less concern after all it didn't
count but then months later the results
would come back just before they had to
choose
what subjects they were going to take on
in their senior years of school year 11
and 12 and this is when everything
changed and for some students it changed
dramatically the students were
impressionable of course the students
were told over and again psychology is a
careful and precise science and
psychologists are the people you go to
for help should you ever need it well
the latter is a fine and admirable
heuristic performer is utter baloney
what happened was the results of these
tests were broken down into types of
reasoning I cannot remember the exact
details and I don't want to provide them
anyway in order to preserve the privacy
of everyone involved this school wasn't
unusual it's now a routine practice
especially in so-called elite private
colleges in Sydney but this practice
this phenomena is far more broad than
just Sydney and Australia students and
hence their parents in the school
administrators were given a breakdown of
their performance on these tests across
things like basic numeracy and logical
thinking and mathematical thinking and
mechanical thinking and interpersonal
skills and communication and vocabulary
and many more things besides and many
did not score as high as they might have
thought in things like mathematical or
logical or mechanical reasoning and this
upset them but that was not the worst
thing no these professionals left the
absolute soul-crushing part of the
report right until the end
at the end of the report was a list of
careers and professions the student was
most suited for as a result of the test
and then also the careers and
professions the students were apparently
less suited for and you can guess
exactly what happened not always but
once would be too often of course
but it happened every year to a large
number of students to some extent or
other those who aspired to be scientists
or engineers and had hit the two always
performed well in every Science and
Mathematics assessment task given to
them at the school were for the first
time assessed low on mathematics
mechanics and logic and we're told you'd
be well suited to being a journalist or
a politician or a lawyer because they
did better on the vocabulary and grammar
portion of this particular test while
aspiring artists lawyers and doctors
were told sometimes well you're not
creative enough you're good enough at
communicating or sufficiently empathetic
and so on and perhaps you'd be better
suited to a trade like hairdressing or
working Outdoors or perhaps going into
Child Care work but this report had
great Authority it was administered with
gravitas and the results delivered with
great seriousness the report was always
excruciatingly comprehensive too printed
on high quality paper with graphs and
high standing terms it resembled some
kind of medical or pathology readout in
places returning the results of a blood
test where experts had to worryingly
pour over the numbers to see what it all
meant for the well-being of the patient
the numbers were then broken down into
further fine detail and for the
layperson of course the data seemed
terribly complex the easy to digest
simple summary though meant you knew
what it all meant at a glance you never
really needed to look at the detail in
the numbers much less question their
validity or reasoning
some teachers complained of course I
complained but there was a market for
this parents demanded this kind of thing
because other schools did it and after
all psychology is a science so perhaps
we should take seriously the results of
this test and yes I admit most teachers
took the test seriously as well saying
things like well although X has done
rather well on their mathematics until
now the psychological assessment
indicates their actual native numeracy
skill is rather low are we sure that
Jennifer can take on the higher levels
of mathematics that she wants in her
final year of school pre-university
I got to look at the test once it was
nothing but a set of puzzles questions
phrased in a way deliberately to be
utterly different to the way students
were familiar with how questions were
put to them in other tests other
standard tests on a day-to-day basis in
school it was utterly unfamiliar this
psychological test not studied for was
assessing perfectly learnable material
it was a bag of tricks and bits of
knowledge any of those students could
have learned in a week to Ace the test
across all indicators but they were told
this was assessing their natural talents
in certain areas so there was no point
in studying and of course the test was
strictly copyright no one was allowed to
keep or make copies of the test and they
were carefully guarded online and
remained so
we wouldn't want anyone gaming the
system right it was a soul-crushing
confidence destroying exercise every
single year I saw many students lose
Hearts aspiring Engineers simply give up
from that day on no matter my sitting
with them in their exasperation and
explaining a psychologists don't know
what they're talking about this test
means nothing
the students appreciated it but one
could see behind their eyes
there's Mr Hall again just trying to
explain why some subjects aren't as good
as physics or real science
now is not the time Mr Hall for your
jokes this is a little more serious
actual psychologists have after all just
assessed my brain Mrs so-and-so who has
a PhD in Psychology here at the school
taught us in Psychology class how
reliably predictive these kind of tests
are the school chooses to do this every
single year to students they care about
us
anyways I've always thought maybe I
could actually just work with my dad
he's got an accountancy Furman well they
take on trainees each year
thank you